Wuppertal-Barmen, Borkumerstr. 18 [c/o H. Wessel]
(in the Ruhr region Düsseldorf-Essen-Dortmund)
My dear Luis!
I was truly not a little surprised to hear from you from Scotland. But one can get used to anything, and I have accepted that Portugal simply was not enough to fill the long holiday. I can well imagine in my fantasy how you both have been travelling all through G.B. with the "sewing machine." You must have seen and heard a fabulous amount in this way, especially also in contact with the rural population and farmers. I also quite believe that you often reached for the sketchbook, despite the dear Rolleiflex. It will give me great pleasure when you send me some typical travel pictures.
Now I also want to write to you about what I did and am doing. After the labor service I was mostly at home again, but did not work particularly much. The large school about which I have already told you, we have completed the plans for. A fantastically good model of it was also produced. Now the credit still has to be approved by the people in the form of a vote among approximately 60,000 persons. The credit of 3,020,000.- Fr. then comes into the budget for 1937. Then in spring a new post office building will follow (200 meters away). Perhaps you have also heard about the Swiss defense bond. That was a bond from the state for the improvement of the army. One wanted an amount of 235 million Fr. for new aircraft, tanks, anti-aircraft artillery, forts, etc. The aim was to collect a first installment of 80 million Fr. within 14 days. But the success was tremendous. Instead of 80 million, 330 million were immediately given voluntarily by the people. Everyone could subscribe to such (bond) loans, as there were even denominations of 100, 500, etc. People also did not need to pay coupon tax. Now they are arming to the hilt with this money. New barracks are also being built. All for defense!
The devaluation of the Swiss Franc came unexpectedly suddenly. But there was no other way to prevent the massive speculation that the devaluation of the French Franc would have brought to the detriment of Switzerland. Then the monetary basis between London-Paris-New York was also taken into account. Holland and Switzerland were the last countries on the gold standard. It was no longer possible to hold both countries to it. The Swiss Franc is now covered at 120%. (Reichsmark 1.2%!) Import businesses have suffered major losses. Prices in Switzerland have not risen. Without government approval, no wholesale or retail price may be increased. Therefore it is now favorable for foreigners on holiday (hotels). It is good that I still have money in it. Buying with German Marks would be madness, 1 MK = 1.75 Fr.! The devaluation has not hit us hard. One should now be able to retrieve securities in England (30% profit).
In Chile you also had a government crisis. But it seems to have resolved itself again and the "Popular Front" has been pushed aside. These Russian pigs are everywhere. Also in Switzerland, mainly in Zurich, a large Communist Party headquarters for Europe was recently discovered, with secret transmitters and printing presses. The red brothers were expelled across the border under cover of night and fog, others are in prison. In the second part of November the trial in Switzerland against the Jewish murder of the "Gauleiter of Switzerland" Gustloff in Davos. The murderer was examined by psychologists and is declared normal. Everyone is curious about the verdict, in Germany naturally especially, because they believe the Swiss courts to be "Jewish-liberal-democratic-un-volkisch, etc." I am convinced the verdict will be just.
Last Wednesday I drove to Weimar — by the way, beforehand I received from Hamburg "Zillertal" a really "lovely" postcard. I turned red and closed my eyes. It must have been quite fun in Hamburg. How is Pepsi, has she become even rounder like a marzipan piglet? — so I drove to Weimar in the sunshine. Everyone there had flown the nest. John and Bubi were at home. John had completed his C gliding certificate and Bubi was in Brookland. Now they want to go together to Italy, after the "Rocky Mountains" project fell through due to the Dutch Zeldenburg being too expensive and having fallen into the water. Bubi had an interesting acquaintance with a secretary of the Countess, who then stole from the Countess! Miss Vogel, Miss Reiche and Miss Bodenhausen have moved on. Miss Bodenhausen is very ill and can only walk on crutches. Frau Gräfin was quite seriously ill, she is still convalescing. Frau Reuter recites further, Beate waters flowers, Frau Richard has a radio that blares through the whole house. Then there was a cousin of Pepsi there with her mother. The cousin is plump with a pageboy haircut, the mother chews on an artificial pearl necklace, with frightening eye makeup. I packed my things at the Keyserlinks. I fool that I am forgot to put mothballs in the clothes. The result is now very negative. The moths particularly enjoyed a felt hat, which is now very original designs which even the Borsalino factory has never shown before. By the way, the criminal police had been at the house again. The blonde maid had hidden 10 Marks and reported to the police that it had been stolen from her. After lengthy investigations the police discovered the fraud. I was not at the school. Do you know that Norkauer has also left? He wrote to me himself, on the occasion of our correspondence about the roofing book that I sent him to Chile. Häussler in place of Beblo. Norkauer's position has been taken by an architect Giesler? It still seems not to be clear today; 17 new students have enrolled, of us old ones only a few. But it is now recognized as a university. Schulze stays!
I was surprised that Behrens went to Berlin. Are you satisfied at Popp's? Are you living again with the nice lady? In this dreadful weather you won't be able to sunbathe toward the Theresianumpark. I am now employed here at a friend of my father's, a large iron company. You know, it is not at all my (our?) favorite field, but I am well looked after, doing experiments in the laboratory and getting an "improved idea" of this specialist area. I will also be going deer hunting with my principal, which for me is also a "specialist area." My stay here is still undetermined. Incidentally, the scarcity of iron is noticeable. Only those companies that have a very large iron stockpile can build. There is nothing new. England has bought up all the Swedish ore, here one needs Scandinavian ores for mixing to improve the iron. I will have a few more photographs taken of labor service etc., have copies made and occasionally send them. From the labor service there is still circulating a very...
[text continues along left margin, partially illegible]