Switzerland, Dec. 30, 1936
Dear Lucho:
Let me know what you have decided about your camera!
From Nora I had the bad news that you are still a "cripple" and will remain so considerably longer than you had expected. My sympathy is with you, especially since I know how you were looking forward to Hute-haus. The girls will be keeping you good company though and it seems Candidas are anything but shy as in my vicinity here their would not be much skiing to be had anyway.
I have been having a very nice time here with my grandmother. Aside from calls and teas which it is my duty to attend to as son of an old friend of so many people, I have been getting around seeing some parts of the countryside one way or another. Day before yesterday I hired a car with an American woman (fat and over 40) and took a trip up to a little village called Gruyères. Charming place built on a hill with a castle and village, little changed during the past couple of hundred years. The famous dish in that part of the country is a large bowl of cream which one eats with powdered fruit. I have never in my life eaten so much cream and felt so well after the experience. It seems that the cream from that part of the country is very adaptable to eating just as it is and in spite of its being so rich, does not make one sick.
Something for Nora!
Today, a friend of the family drove us down to Genève. Many castles on the way and also interesting things in Genève itself - especially old buildings. Will show you what they, as well as what Gruyères, was like by means of my marvelous sketches and photographs (when we are through with the patients on the wall in Tautschinning).
I still have had no word from my father. My Mother, however, wrote to me that (she was naturally glad) my Father was also in favor of the plan of my visiting South America next year. So I am much encouraged and hope that if I am not skiing with you in the Andes that we will at least both seeing Peru together.
A few days ago I sent 250.- Swiss Francs to you buried in Hamburg. I did not enclose a letter though, thinking the envelope might be opened at the customs. I will however, write a note to him in the next couple days asking him to forward the marks to me in Germany, where and when I find it convenient to have them. Not all to the same place - perhaps part to Freiburg and the rest to Berlin. In your next letter please tell him that the money was from me as only my grandmother's name appeared on the back of the envelope. Also please tell him that if my letters to him seem peculiar in any way, it will be so that if opened by a person other than himself they will contain no damaging evidence. In other words I might write - "please send me 100 marks and send it to the following address - ". At all events I shall make no mention of the money I sent him, but merely ask for money as though I was borrowing it or simply ask for it with no reason whatever.
It would be foolish for me to take all my skiing things with me to Berlin so I will be sending some of them back to Vienna. I am taking the liberty of addressing them to you at the legation because in that way they are sure of arriving and also because you will be back first and can receive them (otherwise the postoffice might not hold them until January and the same thing would happen as did with the package that arrived for me during the summer). So if you receive a note from the legation saying that there are packages for you don't act surprised. I shall in all probability send skiis and poles, books, and perhaps some clothing.
Have you had any news about our island?
Well you wretch don't get too fat. Give the girls a hug from me.
Yan
Winold
All the best to Mrs Willfart, the Oehmanens, etc.
Heil something or other - if you are in a good mood, Heil Österreich for me after the struggle you will have had reading this letter).
