Hotel Pacifico
Algarrobo
Jueves 4 de Febrero /42
Darling:
Thanks for ringing up, it was lovely talking to you. As you see I still miss you and keep wishing you could be here with me or I with you in Santiago. I am afraid you have not felt well since I came away as you went to the Doctor's. I hope it was not bad, that you are taking care of yourself and I pray you will be perfectly well soon. You must be bored stiff with your tummy, by this time, you haven't been well for such ages!
I hope the gentleman of the Santo Domingo plans will like them. I am looking forward to seeing you next Thursday. You will have to write or phone me if you are going to the Astoreca's or coming here. The Hotel is not full so maybe they could give you a room for two as they are better.
The Hotel is very feeble, there is nobody we know, but luckily our friends have houses, Rale Vesa de Brown is here and asked me to lunch today but I did not go so as to be here at one o'clock. Fortune Vade arrived today at Betty Schönmeyer's and it seems Negra Walker is coming soon.
Incredible but true the sea has not been cold these days so I have bathed twice every day.
Jorge Opazo and Sergio Matta came here on bicycle and Tibe and Marcos and I intended going on the first ugly day, they, the Marcos came to fetch me to go today but since I was expecting your call they left it for another day.
Yesterday I had tea at Mae's and we went out for a walk with them and Cota Vicuña.
Darling I wonder how your home is, I would love to be there to see what new arrangements you are doing, what the curtains look like etc.
Sergio Matta asked after your mother, said she had very good taste "y que no dejaba pasar ni una, que le gustaba lo perfecto". Please give her my love and I hope she is well, give more of my love to your father. There is still lots left for you.
What a long letter, all to remind you I love you all day and night, that I am leading a very lazy life bathing, walking, eating, sleeping and just for a change, just so as you should not doubt it, missing you.
We have not heard from Consuelo. Mummi sends you her love, and I am looking forward to your letter and to you in due time
Darling your loving Angela.