1 October 1991
Dear Luccho,
on 30 June 1991 I sent you a letter with pictures from Solothurn (with English commentary), and I now believe that you probably did not receive this letter, as it apparently got lost in transit. Therefore I am sending you a copy of that letter here.
A few more remarks about the Weimar period and afterwards:
Many years ago Frau Avenarius called me because she was on holiday in Switzerland by the lake near Thun, staying with acquaintances. My wife and I then met Frau Avenarius in Bern and entertained ourselves over cake and tea in a tea room. But I no longer know any details of the conversation. She had not changed much, was still as slim and tall as before. I enjoyed the reunion.
Less pleasure was brought to me by a completely unexpected visit from Pepi zu Dohna in Solothurn. She looked ill and unappealing, and it seemed to me she came from the nightlife underground of Munich, where she would have been consorting with soldiers of the American occupation forces. I had the same miserable impression of a friend that Pepi brought with her. In any case I did not take Pepi home with me. There was nothing left to see of the former freshness and good looks of Pepi from the Weimar days.
I fondly remember Frau Gräfin as a cultured lady, and also how we listened together in your room to Ravel and Debussy records (Bolero and L'après-midi d'un faune). Sometimes I wonder whether in the cellar of the university so-called "degenerate, Bolshevist" paintings might not have been stored, such as works by Paul Klee, Wassily Kandinsky, etc. One could probably have acquired these paintings cheaply at the time. But then again, who thought of that back then... The Nazis would have made difficulties. Today the artists of the former Bauhaus are of enormous value. Frau Gräfin knew these artists personally.
Then I think of our amusing but mishap-filled trip in the old vintage convertible with you, John and Bubi Laub to Meiningen. Bubi and his entire family were likely thrown into a concentration camp by the Nazi bandits and died there miserably — dreadful.
For today I will close and hope that the letter will reach you in Chile.
With warm greetings,
Your Rolf