Emil Altenburger, Dipl. Architect S.I.A.
Solothurn, Gartnerstrasse 6 - Telephone 2749 - Postcheck-Konto Va 339
Solothurn, 9 June 1937
My dear Lucho,
Excuse me for writing to you on business paper, but since I am currently busy and things are not going well at the office, it could not be otherwise. I thank you for your interesting account of your Italian excursion. Your opinion is, thank God, entirely personal and contains not only praise but also criticism, since most Italian travelers are otherwise blindly intoxicated, but more out of artistic piety toward antiquity.
As you can see, I am back in Switzerland, having been here for about a week. Before my departure I visited the great Düsseldorf exhibition "Schaffendes Volk" (Creative People) in the Ruhr region. There is a great deal of fuss made about it in Hitleria, but I was actually rather disappointed after all the enormous propaganda in the press, etc. The exhibition is indeed very large, like a trade fair, with a huge quantity of German industrial products, though in a not overly cluttered, elegant form; above all, the unity in company signage and the complete absence of garish advertising are effective. The exhibition buildings are convincing wherever one can see the entire construction and where it has been cleverly clad where necessary, however there are pavilions built with Potemkin-style plaster facades, houses that look like stone palaces from the outside but are nothing but shabby wooden sheds on the inside. I was interested in the new synthetic materials such as BUNA (synthetic rubber) and the much-praised and much-cursed cellulose products. The glass and ceramics industry also produced good things. I must also note that when I visited, the exhibition was not yet finished at all, even though Mr. Göring had ceremoniously opened it some time ago. This is amusing, because the German press cannot criticize the Paris Exhibition enough for not being completely ready at its opening. But one likes to see the beam in another's eye when one has an even bigger one in one's own.
As I write these lines there is a large air raid drill here, meaning the entire canton of Solothurn had to black out (cover all windows completely airtight, etc.), squadrons of aircraft are sweeping through the air to check whether any light can still be seen anywhere. Industrial facilities in particular are being inspected in this regard. One cannot imagine at all how much is currently being done here in harmless Switzerland for active and passive military defense. Barracks are being built on a large scale, and all military units are being significantly reinforced with the latest weapons.
Since the devaluation, there has been a steady upward development in Switzerland. Industry has picked up and in some mechanical sectors there is already a shortage of skilled workers becoming noticeable. Here too, in our heartland of the watchmaking industry, a rapid upturn can be observed; the factories are already beginning to work day and night to cope with the many orders from abroad. We are already participating in this economic boom ourselves, processing orders for the immediate expansion of watch company facilities in our office. A major new sales territory for one such Solothurn watch company is British India, where watches are curiously not used as timepieces but are sold almost exclusively as jewelry.
In Düsseldorf I also bought the Leica III and successfully smuggled it into Switzerland, after I had taken all precautionary measures with the greatest of cunning following my bad customs experiences. The 36 exposures loaded are not yet fully taken, so I cannot yet form a judgment about my photographic output. My poster collection, which I am now building up internationally, I recently supplemented with two graphically outstanding examples from Budapest. Germany mostly produces rubbish, with the possible exception of HAPAG and N D Lloyd. But otherwise today's level is worryingly low.
As you write to me, you intend to take a trip through Scandinavia before your departure from Old Europe, and you write that it would be fun if you came along. If I had still been in Wuppertal or had been stationed somewhere else in the north, I would certainly have seized the opportunity and gone strolling with you through Gulbranssen's "eternally singing forests"; that would have been fabulous.
Furthermore, I must state very categorically that you, having already consumed a quite considerable piece of Europe, will soon be returning to your homeland without having even tried the smallest piece of our good old Switzerland. Don't you feel that this is still a gap that you absolutely must fill quickly? Could you not include a few days in SWITZERLAND (Solothurn, Bern, Lucerne, etc.) in your remaining European itinerary???? It would be great fun, such a cunning streak criss-crossing Switzerland with the "floating base" Solothurn. It would give me immense pleasure to show you the many peculiarities and sights of our country. I urge you, and check whether you can include a few days in SOLOTHURN before your Sweden tour; you are most heartily welcome. So give your heart a firm push toward agreement and let me know soon your hopefully "positive" decision on my proposal.
Furthermore I wish you all the best for your diploma examination (if it has not yet taken place) and
warm greetings,
Your Rolf
[Drawing of boats and lighthouse]