Rolf Altenburger
Rötiquai 38
CH-4500 Solothurn
Solothurn, 30 June 1991
My dear Luccho,
I thank you for your long letter of 12 April 1991 with the very interesting account. You have even kindly invited me to come to Chile in the period from September to December. That would be wonderful, but unfortunately I must tell you that I am very ill, that is, my eyes have become so weak that I can only read and write with great difficulty, and travel is out of the question. I can no longer recognise people face to face, and an eye operation is no longer possible, as professors in Bern and Zurich have explained to me. You know, if I were fit and in full health, I would come to you in Chile with the greatest pleasure, and I deeply regret that I can no longer undertake a journey to you.
And now listen carefully! An industrial company, the Cellulosefabrik Attisholz SA Solothurn, wants to build a cellulose factory in Chile. One of the directors of this concern has reported to me that he has already been to Chile several times and has found and purchased the building site. This director is very impressed by Chile, and finds the country very beautiful, similar to Switzerland. It is a shame that I cannot accept my friend's invitation, it would have suited me, as it has him, very well. The country is stable, and foreign investors find Chile to be the best country in Latin America in this regard. I asked where in Chile this industrial plant was to be built. He named LICANTEN for me. This place lies south of Santiago. At full capacity the new plant would be able to employ 500 to 1000 workers. I told the director that my friend L.M. had been active as a project expert at the World Bank and indeed throughout the entire world. Since the Cellulose SA was apparently also connected with the World Bank, I had to tell him that you, like me, are of course retired. So, as fate would have it, instead of Rolf Altenburger, the Cellulosefabrik Attisholz SA from Solothurn comes to Chile. In the meantime I have heard that other industrialists from Switzerland also want to invest in Chile, such as Marc Rich and Schmidheiny.Yes, my dear Luccho, the journey to Chile would have been for me at my age (78) still the last great journey, but unfortunately I must, as described, forgo it for health reasons. It would have been too beautiful.It is pleasing that your dear wife is doing well again after treatment by specialists in Boston. One must be glad that no serious illness was found. I can imagine that the difficulties with the eyes, that is, with seeing, are not easy to bear for your wife. I know this from my own experience quite well. With magnifying glasses I do not see any better either.I would like to tell you something about our family: My wife Pia came from the family of a Bundesrat (Minister). We married in 1953 and had two children, a son and a daughter. The son became a lawyer (abogado) and works at the State Department for Education. He is called Dieter and is not yet married. My daughter Sabin became a teacher (maestra) and also studied at an arts and crafts school for Graphics/Photography. She is married to a banker who works in Zurich at a major bank, Credit Suisse. I already have 2 grandsons named Tim (3 years old) and Bastian (1 year old). This is therefore my family, but unfortunately my dear wife Pia died in April 1989 of only 66 years from the illness Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma. It is very hard for me to live alone, after we had a very happy marriage and experienced much that was beautiful together.So that you can see what Solothurn looks like, I am enclosing some colour pictures.[manuscript:]
I look forward to your next letter
and remain with warm regards
Rolf