Darling:
Somehow I don't know what to tell you. I haven't been able to forget you yet, it seems as if it's going to be me missing you, and how!...
About May and Matuco. May is not here and may come back on Saturday or stay away for ten days. So there is room for you in the living room in the worst of cases. Here there is a bed in what they call a room but is all but, it is something like a tiny garage and clean and in the last of cases available at $65 a day.
There is no direct communication to Santo Domingo; there are only buses from here to San Antonio and vice-versa. It seems you were right. The hours of the buses from San Antonio are 11 A.M. and 8 P.M. and from here they are 7 A.M. and 4 P.M.
I do not know how one can get from San Antonio to Santo Domingo because the Garita does not know so it seems there is no traffic between both places.
May offered to put you up at once when she asked me if you were coming. So you see darling, everything seems fine. The days here are lovely long sunny and not very windy. I find it is too cold. I wonder how you are and I hope you are feeling well. Your home must be changed already, with curtains and all. I remember the two last days we spent there and wish we could be there now. I hope you are getting on well with Santo Domingo. Please do not get bored and miss me a little like I do.
Here everybody is very amiable, yesterday I had tea at the Astoreca's and Ines Correa asked me to lunch today but I did not because Mummie would have remained alone. This afternoon Cota and I intend going out for a long walk.
I hope your Mother is well and without urticaria please give her my love, your father too. I hope you like my green ink but it is the only one that there is here for fountain pens.
Algarrobo is quite changed as there are several new houses, not Pato Casanueva, but the same style. Everybody asks after you and sends you their love but I send you lots more than all of them together and I look forward to hearing you on Thursday.
I am posting this letter after lunch so you should receive it tomorrow afternoon. Darling hugs and kisses
your Angela who expects to receive a letter from her Darling.