Den Haag, 26 January 1991.
Dear Luis,
As I had nearly given up all hope of hearing from you, I was extra pleased when your letter finally arrived. It arrived on the 10th of this month and I should have replied a bit earlier had it not been that my stomach ulcer was worrying me again. So every now and then, usually not more then twice a year I feel my stomach. Merely by reducing my food to a minimum the pain usely disappears again after 2 – 4 weeks. This inconvenience is of course nothing in comparison with that of Rolf and your wife Angela.
At the beginning of this month Rolf wrote me: "Ich selbst bin wieder sehr krank am Herzen und leide an Blutarmut". On my next trip to Switzerland I shall make a point of visiting him.
It was most interesting to read your curriculum and travel log. Most of my traveling is registered in my many logbooks. There is hardly a place in Europe to be found which I have not visited (with more than 100.000 inhabitants). I once counted the countries I have visited and I came to about 80. But I never visited South-America and I'm very tempted to do so. I may be visiting South-Africa in about November this year. I went to that country in 1938 and at the outbreak of World War II I did there my training for bomberpilot. Later on I was stationed there for KLM and was then flying Constellations from Johannesburg to Kano in Nigeria.
So should I go to South-Africa, and I have at the moment the intention to do so, I might be able to go on a charterflight from Johannesburg to Santiago. I wrote my friends in South-Africa to check if that would be possible.
Last September I made a trip by car to Switzerland, Austria and Hungary. On my way back, I went through East-Germany and visited also Weimar. I had a look at the "Haus in der Sonne" and took a picture of it with a pocketcamera. It is now housing women, belonging I believe, to some Christian Society. I was at the time living on the top floor. Again I'm living on the topfloor but now in Den Haag (The Hague) or actually I'm living in Scheveningen, a beachresort and a suburb of Den Haag. As I had not been using that particular camera for years, I forgot to move my finger from the lens. Sorry. I know how good you were already at photographing in your German time and I noticed that you really achieved something in that respect.
In November I went to Tenerife (Islas Canarias) for a short holiday. It is the best place in "Europe" for guaranteed sunshine.
I don't think that I told you that I never married. I now feel sorry that I didn't. I moved around too much.
Sorry to hear that Angela is still suffering. I do hope that she will soon recover.
Please write again. I shall also do it.
Kindest regards to you and Angela,
John
As I left KLM before the pension age (50) I must pay, unfortunately, the full price for airline travel.