LUIS MITROVIĆ B.
ARQUITECTO
Santiago, April 9, 1992
Dear John,
What a terrible blow when receiving the news Rolf Altenburger has past away.
As you know we had lost track of each other since I boarded the S.S. Dresden 52 years ago. By a miracle I contacted him 1988. As I understand he was heartbroken with the loss of his wife Pia, and his eyesight had deteriorated very much, so he told me, even if wishing to, not being able to travel and visit us in Chile. So I was looking for the opportunity to visit him in Solothurn. Now it is too late. I liked him so much with his clever dry humor and great common sense together with his friendly sensitive personality. I would have liked to know more about Rolf's covering the 52 years we lost contact. This I can't ask his sons Dieter and Sabin as I am not acquainted with them, so I would be very grateful to you if you could provide me with such information.
I missed telling Rolf that I went on practicing skiing when in Austria, because many of my coligues were from Innsbruck and Salzburg. In Chile, with what I was earning at that time with architecture, I could afford skiing practically every second week. I became a friend of the professionals like of the school of Hannes Schneider, Luggi Foeger, Emile Allais, who spent their Summer teaching in our Winter in Chile and I took individual ski training lessons, so I became a rather good skier. I represented Chile 3 times in the Panamerican Olympics, in Chile, Argentina and U.S.A.. I never managed to be better.... than fourth in slalom and downhill racing, but I really enjoyed competition. Now looking backwards, it seems to me it wasn't me.
In my last letter to Rolf I described the interesting part of our Spring vacation. We drove 1000 km up Northern Chile and rented a Chevrolet jeep Trooper 4WD to Pan de Azucar a remarkable micro climate plateau, located in the middle of a big desertic zone, 800m high on the very abrupt edge that falls direct on the Pacific Ocean. At the surrounding desert it ocasionally, every 8 to 10 years, it gets flooded by terrible downpore of rain that fills the whole flattened 3/4 km wide river bed that runs flanked by steep inclines, normaly all bone dry. It is over this sandy bed that you drive inland until we saw a rock formation that indicated we should turn 180 degrees back to the coast and clime a track up the incline until we got to the 800m high plateau over the ocean. Its surfase is undulating with grounded row white silica full of black cactus, shrubs and low cushions of all kind of flowers (Spring). No human creature around for hundreds of km. Everything, the spines of the cactus, shrubs etc.. are dripping with moisture that equals a yearly rain fall of 1,20 meters. The micro climate is due to the moist satureted air that builds over tropical waters of the Pacific, that convert to clouds when flowing over the cold Humbolt stream, then when forced to clime the 800 high coast of Pan de Azucar the saturated clouds condence its water on every obstacle stands on their way and then falls as water drops to the ground. There is research going on where they ha-constructed a 10 m high by 4 to 5 m wide net that condences into water the moister of the cloudes when hitting the net. At the bottom, the collectedted water is a constant one inch pipe that fill an overflowing tank of water where guanacos (wild llamas) come to drink. As nobody harms them, you can get as close as 10 meters. While you are eating a sandwich foxes get close to your feet begging for crumbs of bread. Before they could drink out of that tank, they used to lick the condenced water from the cactus spines and shrub branches. All this big desertic area is controled as a National Fauna and Flora Preservation Park and not allowed to go by yourself, so if well recommended they provide you with a guide. The low passing clouds make visibility very difficult and this makes it very dangerous of getting lost, and afraid of not seeing the edge of the cliffs and risk and falling direct the 800 m into the ocean.
Sorry John all this too long description has become terribly boresome. It is the fault that I was taken away by this "ganz unheimish" adventure. You should come and stay with us! Best time is September to December. We have a small but very attractive apartment on a 18th floor with beutiful view over a Country Club, where we play golf two or three times a week, and over it you can see the big snow covered Andes. Our study has acomodation for two guests, a bathroom and a closet.
We took our Summer vacations rather late in March. As I had had been twice with pneumonia in a one year's period, now I am very well luckely, the physician recommended me to go for a few weeks to the country, so as to be in good shape for Winter when Santiago gets terribly polluted with smog. So we went to the South Lake District. As it would have been a 10 hours drive, and Angela can't drive any more because of her poor eyesight, this would have been too much of a day's drive for me. Therefore we loaded the car and ourselves on train to Temuco. From there we drove to stay with several friends at their farms on Lake Villarrica, and then to Osorno, Lake Pullehue and another farm in Lake Rupanco, that were 4 to 5 hours further South. From the living rooms over the lakes you could see the snow covered volcanos, first Volcano Villarrica, then at Rupanco Volcano Osorno and Cerro Punteagudo surrounded by virgin forests. On our return to Santiago we loaded our car again on the train in Osorno.
I hope to hear from you soon, and don't forget that you should come and visit us in Santiago. A lovely place for you to visit is the mountain range of Torres de Paine in Patagonia. Very much like the Dolomites, but more impressive.
With very friendly regards,
Lucho