"The Yews"
Ridgeway
Leatherhead
Surrey
March 12th 43
Querido Lucho
Well of course it should be - malo Lucho. ¿de qué se trata? I have written to you before Xmas and haven't had a WORD from you. But perhaps I should say ¡Guerra mala! because our letters may be at the bottom of the sea! Or do you think that while Cucho is here you need not write to me anymore? Or have you got married and QUITE forgotten me?
Poor old Cucho has got influenza (garrotazo) now and is feeling like - un gato muerto. Yes - I did begin to learn spanish 2 months ago and was progressing nicely, even began to read a book called "Autor de Perdición"!! Then suddenly I had to put my books away and now I have forgotten everything I ever learnt. What made me put my books away? Well I have had a complaint for some time now, a form of asthma and the doctors were trying to find out what caused it. They've suddenly found it was - our siamese cat!
So I was promptly ORDERED to leave this house. It means a great change to me. Because like all girls of my age (¡Ay! muchas viejas!)
I am due to be "called-up" - if you know what that means - and will probably go to London and work in a factory. It will probably be dull, dreary and tiring but - there's a war on. I shall leave here at the end of this month and as I have not been very well for a long time, I will have a 3-4 weeks complete rest - domino - corner - papers in the country and I hope that I will be strong again so that I can stand my new job. I have not had a holiday for 2 years. - I often think of the lovely holidays I had in the old days. One of the best was the one that was rather unlucky for you as you hurt your knee considerably. Pohre Lucho, I don't think you enjoyed it quite as much as I did. - I probably said that in my last letter, already - but I do like remembering the long talk we had there one night - you and I. When Cucho saw a photograph I have of you (skiing) he told me that your face was much thinner now. of course, it's nearly 6 years (or is it?) since I last saw you.
I have heard from "unfaithful" old Tjark, he had a second operation in which his appendicitis was finally removed. I think that by now he must be quite well. - I have good news from my family and Mary sends her love to you. Soon she will have been married 3 years, I can hardly imagine it. Unfortunately she wants to wait with babies until after the war. If I were her, I wouldn't.
Señorita Boward
