Dubrovnik July 31/37
Dear Lucho!
A hurried note because my ship the "MARIJA RAČIĆ" sails in an hour. Such a hurry because the boat is sailing earlier than was expected and they were kind enough to wait until I returned from Greece. Perhaps you will receive also a letter explaining the same things that are in this letter which I sent from Greece to Trieste that you would hear from me one way or another. Well my lad, I am sailing without a visa first because as you know, I could not get one in Vienna and second because they wanted to charge me $36.- U.S. for me in Greece. This because I have not lived one year in Greece which is a prerequisite for the ordinary fee of $7.- U.S. In the Argentine I will be able to get off the boat as a member of the ship's crew but if I don't get a visa in Buenos Aires I shall have to return with the same boat. I hope that in some way you can put your finger in the pie to see that I do get a visa. By all means let your people know that I am invited as your guest to visit you - and if you know somebody that has something to do with the Argentine in Buenos Aires who might be of help please let them know. It seems that arriving on a freight boat makes things a little more difficult because they believe that one wishes to immigrate. Whatever you do write to me care of Yugoslav Lloyd so that I know what to expect upon my arrival. If I don't receive a letter there I will expect my "Poste Restante" at care of the American Consulate.
You Bastard you don't know me without work as you know how far I will get with my knowledge of Spanish. I have a little call on my consulate general as to who I am and asking him to give me what help he can but I don't know how far his help will go.
I hope you had a nice trip home and didn't lose your or my baggage. I shall leave you as a guest if after 35 days on this freighter I find that I have to return to Europe.
My trip to Greece was enjoyable although there was too little time to see everything or do work. The countryside and landscape impressed me more than the Greek culture I saw.
Nora and family are well and send their best to you.
Well old boy keep me up and
Regards to your parents
Tjark