Den Haag, July 21, 1992.
Dear Luis,
Sorry for not answering your letter of June 5 a bit earlier, but I was waiting for a clearer picture as to my possibilities to make use of your kind invitation to visit you this year. I regret very much that I finally had to decide not to make such a major trip this year.
Lately business has been very slack for me and I don't intend to continue much longer. However there are several deals still in "the pipe-line" and I don't want to endanger my commission on those deals. Under these circumstances I feel that I should not leave on a trip abroad lasting some weeks.
Not helping matters is the present bad situation at the stock-exchange. I invested a substantial amount of money in an airline and a meat-factory. Both of them went bust. On most of my other shares I also had heavy losses, but, of course, being an optimist I believe that there soon may be a recovery.
I don't remember if I gave you the full story on my skin cancer. It all started with a small ulcer at my left temple. The surgeon told me after removal that it was not malign. But very soon after that a second ulcer developed and this time it was "a little" malign. A third ulcer was then removed close to my left eye. This operation left me with extreme swollen eyelids, for which there was no cure apparently and I finally had to have my eye removed. Then a tubercle was discovered under my (removed) eye and again I was prepared for an operation, but after the surgeon had already given me a full anaesthetic he decided that he would not operate, but hand me over to the radio-therapeutic section. I had then 40 radiations over a period of one month. It was a terrible experience, causing great pain, especially in my mouth. The radiation stopped mid April this year. I now got my prothesis and I also have new spectacles with slightly tinted glasses. I enclose a recent picture.
Yes, I had a broken leg in Germany. Do you also remember the drive in my Dixie car, when we had one break-down after the other? Rolf was then also in the party.
A few days ago I went to the Floriade. It was really magnificent. That day the weather was also perfect. I walked for 6 hours and then I had probably seen not more 1/3 of the show.
Last month I went by train to Berlin and from there to the ILA at the Schönefeld Flugplatz. The ILA (Internationale Luftfahrt Ausstellung) was previously always held every two years at Hannover, but since the German unification it has been removed to Schönefeld.
I'm quite unhappy about the decision I had to take about not going to see you this year, but I just can't make it. Once I have finished completely with my business, I can review the matter.
I do hope that you and your wife are both in good health.
Kindest regards,
John