Dipl. Arch. Eugen Himmel
J.C. Paz 1511 Martinez, F.C.G.B.M.
Buenos Aires — Argentina
Tel. 792-5266
30 March 1970
Dear Lucho, your detailed Christmas letter gave me great pleasure — your extended travels in the U.S.A. and description of your impressions — in which your fondness for plants and flowers also speaks — driving through beautiful areas in a fine car naturally gives a great deal of pleasure. That you did not get to see Tjark during all this — is indeed rather regrettable — but he seems to really have a great deal to do — for he has also forgotten to answer my detailed letters.
That you are building large projects in the U.S.A. is very pleasing — but it seems to be the same there as everywhere else. That naturally greatly impairs our joy in the profession; when it becomes complicated, the enthusiasm also suffers.
Porak I have known for years. His wife is charming — as are his parents who live in Brazil — we only have contact on official occasions, embassy etc. By the way since we are speaking of embassies and you want to know my opinion about the Chilean embassy in Buenos Aires — it is my opinion that this is no contemporary, represents an architectural solution — without doubt important — although very pleasant proportions are present — the strongly curved facade seems more suited to an opulent private house, as I also get this general impression of the building. Since I do not know the floor plan I naturally cannot discover any organizational advantages that do not find expression in the facade.
The problems in planning embassies are thoroughly familiar to me from the work on the German Embassy in Washington.
You have wide-ranging connections perhaps also to Mexico and to serious industrial architects there — whom I could possibly name for project and supervision work (for projects there) — A German industrial company has enquired with me about this — Perhaps you can answer me soon.
It would be wonderful if you could come to Buenos Aires sometime — so that we can see each other again after a long time and talk properly.
Warmest greetings to you and your dear wife from both of us,
Eugen