Dipl. Architect Eugen Himmel
Member of the Reich Chamber of Fine Arts
Berlin-Charlottenburg, Schlüterstrasse 49
Tel: 91 14 19
April 16, 1939
Dear Lucho!
As you can see, it's not just with you but also with me that answering your letter — which brought me so much news — has taken such a long time.
I have your letter of May 1, 1938 in front of me, so it has been almost 1 year since you began your first letter. I am glad to hear that you are doing excellently and that you are blessed with an abundance of commissions. It is no small feat to build such a large office building, and I am also happy for you that you now have the opportunity to fully bring your artistic and organizational talents to bear.
I wish you the fullest success in all your work, which will come all the more easily to you, since you have all the prerequisites for it in the fullest measure.
I envy our good Tjark for being able to fully take in all the beauties of your homeland and for having seen such a large part of the world. That this rascal doesn't let anyone hear from him is of course an absolute disgrace, but perhaps we will have the opportunity one day to visit him in his quarters in New York City to coax out like a cricket. If I'm not mistaken, a World's Fair is planned for New York this year, and if things work out reasonably well, we might have a real opportunity to get together on that occasion.
Now another 4 months have passed and I have your second letter in front of me, and since I have heard nothing more from you after this time, I assume that all your wishes and hopes have been fully fulfilled. I do hope, however, that my current letter will receive an earlier reply.
Now I want to tell you how things have gone for us with our competitions. The embassy in Washington unfortunately went to other hands for execution, even though we placed first in 2/3 of the competitions. Shortly thereafter, however, a new competition was announced — namely the administrative building for the A.E.G. in Berlin.
Here too, 11 architects — all of distinguished reputation — were invited, and after the third competition we finally managed to win this commission. It was an immense amount of work until we had processed this entire complex, which I will describe to you briefly later. On top of that came a whole host of other questions, such as the expansion of the office, etc. A particular difficulty also arose from the fact that one could only obtain insufficiently skilled and reliable workers, since — as you well know — with the colossal boom that Germany is experiencing everywhere, a great shortage of labor has set in. So that you have some idea of how large this administrative building will be, I want to share some figures with you — for your information only. Total enclosed volume approximately 500,000 m³, the main facade length is 225 m, and the separation of the rear building sections from one another is achieved through 6 courtyards of approximately 50 by 50 m. I have had photographs taken of the main elevations and wanted to enclose one or two photos for you, but I have not yet received the prints and will send them to you in the next letter. In this building, in addition to spaces for around 5,000 employees, shops, as well as a large casino will be accommodated; furthermore, an exhibition space, a lecture hall, and large-scale garage facilities are also being included.
You can see, then, that it will be an almost universally conceived building, in which all the necessary technical requirements for this purpose will find their application. Particularly challenging in the overall layout have been the level conditions, which raised a great many questions that are being addressed on such a large scale for the first time.
It is gratifying to live today in this great working atmosphere, for many years one had longed for an occupation that demands everything one wishes and is capable of. Now it is here, and if we look around even just in a small area — for example here in Berlin — at what is being accomplished in an incredibly short time, one would almost think that magic is at work here. And yet it is like this all across Germany, and everywhere buildings of gigantic proportions are rising from the ground in an unheard-of short time.
You will surely have received the postcard from our vacation in Bayrisch Zell; unfortunately we had great bad luck and all the joy of being able to ski extensively was ruined by an epidemic flu. Of all the time we spent in the beautiful mountains, we were only able to use our skis for 5 days.
We have the most terrible impressions here of the dreadful earthquake disaster in Chile. It must have been awful.
I hope that I have now told you much of what has happened during our time apart, and I would be glad to hear from you again quite soon.
Some time ago, a well-known ceramicist and sculptor asked me about the conditions in Santiago for artistic professions, as he had apparently received some kind of offer to go there. Incidentally, a Chilean is currently studying at the local Academy here — Prof. Pierrotto from the School of Arts and Crafts in Santiago. Perhaps you know him.
So please, once again, write to me very soon. I send you warm greetings, likewise greetings from my wife,
Yours,
Himmel
P.S. (handwritten): If Tjark writes, give him our regards too. If he doesn't write, I don't know if his address is still the same. D.S.