WUPPERTAL-BARMEN, MID DECEMBER 36
BORKUMERSTRASSE 18 PARTERRE
My dear Lucho,
Your letter, or rather your original grand reportage, reached me happily via Switzerland. I believe the above address is now clearly written, so that we can be in direct contact with each other in the near future. I have also waited with a reply until today, since I believe that you unquestionably needed some rest, after you had so much post to deal with, and secondly there is unfortunately not so much happening here about which one could report much that is new.
First of all I want to express my recognition to you for the very fine sketches which have given me a small glimpse into the distinctive architecture of Portugal .
What particularly pleases me is the Schloss von Bacalhão, which in its proportions, its simplicity, must be a fabulous building. The nobly enclosed street front is extraordinarily beautiful in its grouping. I find the courtyard facade truly fine in its arrangement. One feels the tendency towards symmetry, yet the staircase layout, as well as the original chimney, are very well integrated into the building volume. I could well imagine how a company of ladies and gentlemen in their colourful national costumes would descend the open staircase — that is, how vivid the colours of the garments would stand out against the whitewashed wall, with the sharp shadows of the southern sun. You understand what I mean.
In the sketch of Évora with the interesting chimneys I find it remarkable how very large the windows are, which actually correspond little to the local climate. Is there only "monk & nun" as roof covering? Are the large white wall surfaces never planted with [ small sketch of face] vines etc.? I believe the strongly reflected sunlight would destroy the plants.
So now you have arrived back in Vienna, but you have found a school in "revolution." Behrens has therefore befriended himself again with the N.S. [National Socialists], naturally business will have played a role in this, since Austria will offer an architect, whether large or small, absolutely no possibilities for development in the near future. The method by which the school is being continued does not seem to me to be very sympathetic. Is Vienna still a [small sketch of a gravestone/monument] ? Have you met all your friends again? A school comrade from Solothurn who was studying as a medical student in Paris, was killed last week in a traffic accident. Fate is often strange. Now I am going to bed, tomorrow I will write to you about the Rolleiflex, regarding a letter I recently received. The letter amused me greatly, since I had already heard about the situation from you. She [Pepi] writes that she made a great mistake by also having invited her friend Bojan, since this one made a great impression on you, so that she [Pepi] became very jealous!! Is it not funny, how Pepi gets annoyed about her 'tactical' mistake? Now Rolleiflex & Co. have moved to Bavaria into a so-called 'Bayern Haus.' In the photo the house looks like a parody of Upper Bavaria after Metro Goldwyn Mayer, sweetly painted window frames & artificial corner quoins etc. — Norkauer would foam at the mouth if he saw the house.
The fate of Mr. von Dibitsch is sad and it has proven that our "must-tip" was right. He has, as I have heard, obtained a position as estate manager in the region of Erfurt. Perhaps he will find his way back into life.
You will also have read about the Gustloff trial in Chur (Switzerland). The Swiss judges were objective and have judged justly. It is interesting to note in this regard how the NS [swastika drawing] press has worked. The Gustloff trial was brought with such great fanfare and many commentaries on the front pages of the daily newspapers, as was otherwise only customary for a major event such as the Reichstag fire, the Saar referendum, the entry of the military into the Rhineland, etc. — and all of this merely for this cowardly Jewish crime, while in England for days one has been wrestling with serious problems whose consequences could eventually shake the British Empire to its very foundations. At the moment when Edward VIII abdicated, the German people were astonished and speechless, since Mrs. Simpson was only mentioned in passing. People actually knew nothing of what had happened beforehand. Through the silence of the press one wanted to demonstrate how tactful and decent German journalism presents itself as the only one in the world that discreetly keeps silent about a purely "private royal matter."
Edward will now enjoy his life as he wishes, without always having his actions followed by millions of eyes. He is also expected in Switzerland, where many statesmen always come to recuperate. Now an episode also comes to mind that testifies to the colossal conservative attitude of the Queen Mother of Holland, who comes every year with her daughter Juliane to Switzerland for a cure. Acquaintances of our family own in St. Gallen a large shop for fine linens, embroidery, lace etc. which are very famous and also a major export article. Juliane had a selection of underwear sent from this shop, and the management naturally sent first-class silk chemises and knickers etc. in the most modern cut and execution. The shop was astonished when the Queen refused the consignment and instead had her daughter equipped with ordinary flannel underwear, which today for a modern girl is an impossibility!
Following my example, three classmates from Switzerland have now followed me into the Reich and have obtained positions with police work permits. However we are all very spread out across the country so that we have no close contact with each other. 2 other comrades are occupied with railway construction in Iran.
I believe the South American confederation of states will soon become a reality, the Conference of Buenos Aires has certainly brought it closer to the goal, though Roosevelt will also play a certain role. One will think — old Europe — can hardly solve its own problems as we must, itself. The impotence of the League of Nations becomes ever clearer, the struggle of world views makes the goal of reconciliation between peoples an unattainable ideal.
The pact with Japan [small drawing of a japanese flag + skull] has truly come, as you sensed. One does not find general understanding for it here, one fears possible unpleasant complications. Now the most important problem here seems to be — colonies — the shortage of raw materials has reached a stage that with time will result in a catastrophic production standstill. Dr. Schacht has stated this clearly in his latest speech. But the English, as far as the colonial question is concerned, want to have no ears.
We feel the shortage of raw materials very strongly in the construction business. Whoever, for example, has no large stock of iron today, which is all too often the case, can stop building with iron until November 37! We still have a lot of iron in stock and have also ordered immediately at the beginning of November, and indeed with a state certificate that we need the iron for important buildings (e.g. military). As a result we have been promised the next delivery of construction iron by the end of September 1937. The additive materials for the refinement of German iron, such as Swedish manganese, have been bought up wholesale by England etc. for the NS. Also rubber, oils, etc. are lacking, the own synthetic products are not yet mature enough for self-sufficiency. One must therefore be prepared for a sudden coup — "fait accompli" — by the government [small drawing of a vessel]! One hopes in Franco, who "hopefully as thanks and with Spanish courtesy will make a noble gesture in the colonial question." Furthermore negotiations with Portugal are apparently underway, for the purpose of joint exploitation of the Portuguese African colony Angola.
You had the famous idea of travelling to [Swiss cross flag] for Christmas with Winold R. The idea of visiting me I also find very good (I naturally have nothing against Kubosch — so the [small drawing of a camel] was called — and regret only that your financial predicament does not allow the good plan to be carried out. I am however still not certain whether I will travel home from here for the few days, I have not yet firmly decided. I am invited by a Swiss Dr. chem. Director of a chemical factory, also from Solothurn, whom I happened to meet. But suddenly Switzerland becomes ever more magnetic! I hope however to definitely meet you still, before you say farewell to Europe! Be it in [swastika], [Swiss cross], [Cock drawing] [Austrian symbol] or wherever else.
I wish you joyful festivities with a firm ski heel and greet you
Heartily, your
Rolf

Enclosed is a photograph which I took on a roundabout after the labour service. The negative I happened to have here. The house in the foreground is particularly nicely proportioned, especially the first floor. Colour: light beige, shutters chestnut brown. Photo of the school in Solothurn not yet received.
