Vienna, 23 December 1936.
My dear Lucho,
You know what? I prefer to write to you in German. I think we both understand it best. So, I was pleasantly surprised to receive such a nice letter from you. That was a good idea of yours. Now, at Christmastime, I feel particularly lonely and it is especially pleasant to hear a few words from good friends.
You have had outright bad luck, getting a "wound" right at the beginning. Hopefully everything has healed up again by the time you have this letter and you are already running again on the Hintermoos snow slopes. Lucho, I beg you, pay a little more attention to yourself! It makes absolutely no sense if you come back to Vienna with a broken leg or half a head. It would truly be a shame about the head! Hm? So don't do any overly daring stunts, Lucho-Boy!!
While I am writing here on this dreadful machine (it belongs to Hedda), I think to myself how nice it will be when you finally have your new "Underwood" portable. I believe you will have to throw me out of the apartment more often; for from a new "Underwood" I am not easily separated. What will actually happen now with your apartment? Will you look for something different? It would be so nice if you could finally find something truly pleasant. But the searching around in the middle of the season is naturally embarrassing. Well, let's hope for the best!
That the snow situation is so poor was admittedly not foreseeable. But the weather forecast shows large snowfalls in prospect for the next few days, at least for the Alps. So you will certainly still get your money's worth.
I have actually never told you that I admire your energy with which you pursue your sport. I believe you find this sport very necessary! With your temperament and your healthy sensuality you would become very neurasthenic if you did not channel all your concentration into sport and physical exercise. It is remarkable how persistently you keep at it. You certainly do not find it easy to maintain your psychological and physical equilibrium. Even if you never say anything to me about it, I can still sense how much energy you expend to maintain your balance. It seems that you have educated yourself in the course of the last three, four years. Because you must, your whole nature after all must have been quite different before, earlier. Am I right? You also seem to have read quite a lot of literature on occultism (Yoga) etc. We must have a chat about that sometime.
In any case I am very grateful to Tjark that I got to know you, for you are one of the very few people who represent a value and that has the rarity value!
I hope that you spend Christmas pleasantly and likewise wish you a beautiful and pleasant New Year — we can all use it, can't we?
Write to me once more before you come to Vienna; recover well and be most warmly greeted by
Your Helmuth.