Dear Lucho, Received your air mail letter upon my arrival in Lima. I thought that I had forgotten my ski-boots. Please send them to my address in the states 39 WEST 67 ST. right away as I shall surely want to go skiing a couple of times upon my return. But please send them registered - if possible morning one of the "Santa" ships so that they get to me quickly. In your next letter let me know the expenses and I will send the cash to you. My bags arrived in Lima some time ago and I thank you for seeing about them. I shall only see them on the ship as I don't want all the trouble of taking them through the Peruvian customs where they make me unpack everything to be sure one is not exporting silver a vicuña blankets. This next Wednesday, the 29th, I am sailing for Panama aboard the Santa Lucia. Received $300 - from home to get home on but that even does not cover the ridiculously high price of 1st class $345 - to N.Y. so I am going 3rd and using much of the money buying the marvellous ponchos one can buy here in Peru. If the 3rd class is too bad I shall change to a ship of the Dollar Line in Panama which has more reasonable prices. In the four days I spent in Lima I looked around for cargo boats but not many stop in Callao and those that do are few and far between and it doesn't pay for me to wait around as my father has much work and a job awaiting my return. Going through with the S. Lucia I shall be in New York, January 10 if I change in Pan. a few days later. My trip in Peru has been very fine and certainly a fine finish to my three years away from the States. In my last letter I wrote you that I was taking the plane from Cuzco to Lima.
"Our takeoff was delayed a day by bad weather. The trip was very interesting
and in a very fine plane - a new Curtis Condor with capacity for 20 passengers
and piloted by American pilots. Much cheaper and quicker than by going
around by way of Arequipa.
Thursday I left Lima for La Merced in a new Ford - sort of taxi arrangement
with 3 other passengers and very cheap (15.-soles) and very comfortable. La Merced
lies up in the district of CHANCHAMAYO - the tropics of Peru. To get there one must
first climb to 4800 meters and then descend on a road to La Merced which is
so narrow that there is one way traffic each day in alternate directions. And what
a road - I swear I have never seen anything like it - cut for miles into the
solid rock of steep cliffs where one slip of the driver means certain death.
Arch. Baumgarten and his talking of the mountain roads of Austria should take
a look at it. Although it is the rainy season I had luck with the weather and
I believe with the malaria. The one night I spent there was blessed by an earth-
quake (Erdbeben) which woke me and the rest of the town up. So at last I've
experienced that - I was afraid I'd be in S.A. without being in one. From La
Merced I came on here to HUANCAYO by ""Camion"" which was rougher riding -
but without the fleas - of Portugal. Through perfectly glorious country again
climbing high up over the mountains with a view of the snow capped Andes.
All the time passing through picturesque Indian villages with their charming
little churches. It broke my heart not to be in my own car and be able
to get out to take photographs. Spent the night in a little hotel on the way
and arrived here this morning, Pampas, in fine weather which has now changed
to the heavy rain of the rainy season. My Spanish has improved immensely (of
necessity) and I can now get along finding out and saying what I want although
it takes some time and the grammar is all wrong. If I had a few more months I
could really learn something. Give my love and regards to everybody. Sincerely
so don't forget to ask for them there. Tjark. 
PD: The book ""Franciskus"" should arrive by mail and the other books will be deposited at the Cullen Bank in your name
