Information about the S/M Ocean Yacht "UNIVERSITAS VIENNENSIS"

The ocean yacht is a 2-masted gaff schooner that was completely refitted and converted into a sporting passenger yacht in 1933. The ship has a length of 25 m and a beam of 6.40 m. A 50 HP Satima engine gives it a speed of 6 knots; using the sail area of 370 m² the speed can be increased to 10-11 knots in favorable weather.
The yacht's furnishings comprise 11 cabins with 2 beds each and 1 cabin with 4 beds; additionally one more bed is available in the officer's cabin. The beds are equipped with spring inserts and horsehair mattresses. For meals, insofar as these do not take place on deck in fine weather, a salon is available. The deckhouse contains the captain's quarters, a large well-equipped kitchen, 2 washrooms each with 2 large majolica basins and 2 WCs with running water.
The crew consists of: Captain, 1 officer, 1 motorist, 3 sailors, 1 cook, 1 steward, 1 kitchen boy.
The previous voyages of the yacht, which has been in service since 1933, have taken it through the entire Adriatic, the Ionian and Aegean Seas as far as Constantinople, as well as in the western Mediterranean as far as the North African coast. Participants were without exception enthusiastic about this new form of sports-oriented nature travel; testimonials from participants are available.
The chartering of the yacht for social voyages, scientific expeditions, film expeditions etc. can be arranged at an average charter price of S 12,000 for 1 month. Shorter charter periods at a proportionally lower partial amount; a detailed cost estimate will be prepared based on the travel plan in question. Included in this charter fee are accommodation and full board for 27 participants, the provision of the fully operational and completely crewed ship, all operating costs during this period, all port fees, etc. Board on board consists of 4 meals daily: Breakfast (coffee, tea or cocoa, marmalade or butter and bread) — Lunch (soup, fish or meat dish with 2-3 side dishes, fruit or cheese or pastry, coffee) — Afternoon snack (tea, marmalade and bread) — Dinner (appetizer, meat dish with 2 side dishes, dessert, coffee).
For enquiries, details of the planned travel period and route are requested.