Dear Lucho!
Well Lucho I am sitting rather unfortunately. If I write as a real pessimist would I should say that we perhaps will not be seeing each other in Chile. The Argentine Consulate in Vienna refused me a visa in spite of a 5 day wait. So now running back and forth to the American Legation and Consulate to the blank, etc. etc. Don't worry my boy, I have once actually lost my temper, a kind anybody's feelings. The situation is rather a complicated one and I am with hopes of hearing it resolved at the Consulate in Greece. By law and specific directive the U.S. Consulate is not allowed to fill out and stamp these visa cards which the Argentine Consulate insists on having. The only way to get around this difficulty would be for the Argentine Consulate to use their discretionary powers and apply an article (number 6) of their visa regulations of Oct 17, 1936 which states: "la obligación de presentar las tarjetas consulares no rige para oficiales diplomáticos y consulares extranjeros acreditados en el país o en tránsito a través de su territorio, ni para aquellas personalidades, quienes siendo miembros del gobierno de una nación amiga o quienes por razón de su personal respetabilidad u ocupación, hacen inmerecida la adopción de estas medidas para el objeto deseado". However even after a letter from my consul general and Blanco's calling up Urquiza no result could be obtained. I have a letter from my consul in Vienna to our consul in Greece and hope that there I can obtain a visa. I should certainly be very sorry if I had to give up my trip to Chile because of stupid regulations.
It is quite impossible to travel any other way except with the Yugoslav Lloyd because I have so little money. If they would let me on the boat in Rijeka I would consider the chance of going to Buenos Aires without a visa in the hope that the matter could be straightened out there or that I could continue with another boat from there without getting a land.
getting and have a nice trip together and perhaps hitch-hike tomorrow morning stopping at the boat at various places we should be in Rijeka end of the week.
I sent you package of papers to the boat in Bremen - having first called up the Norddeutscher Lloyd for the exact address. I hope you found the photos of the fjord alright. Incidentally you also found the book "Mucki Urwald und Pampa" and I am taking it with me to read and will give it back to you if I get to Chile. I also wired around to the bookstore to see about getting on "Staatsprüfung Zeugnis"; your will be forwarded to the legation. You rest, never again will I have any peace after you. Between Franz Schick gasping for money, the demand not paid and paying for photos, Zeugnisse etc. you are practically 1/2 in my debt. I shall arrive in Chile a minute were looking for many from my father.
Yesterday we saw the girls off to Finland with tears in all our eyes. It was a sad parting as I can tell you.
BEI FRAU FANNY MITROVIĆ (casa de la Sra. Fanny Mitrović)
Vienna, Austria
AN BORD "SS DRESDEN" (a bordo del barco SS Dresden)