WINOLD TJARK REISS
115½ West 15 Street
New York City
January 19, 1940
Dear Lucho,
I have forgotten which one of us owes the other a letter but since an acquaintance of mine will be travelling through Chile, I am forced to write to you.
The acquaintance is a young woman by the name of Miss Content Peckham, who is really a friend of a friend of mine. She works for Time Magazine which is owned by the same concern that publishes Fortune and Life Magazines. Her trip through South America is sponsored by the publication and I therefore suppose she is interested in certain features of Chile which you might be able to make easier for her to acquaint herself with. She has good connections up here in the States and I am sure that any favor you might be able to bestow upon her would be repaid on any visit you might make to New York and the U.S.A. Please don't go out of your way to assist her but I thought that you might be able to give her some very helpful advice without spending too much of your time and effort.
In 10 days, I am taking my New York State Architects' Licensing examination which lasts for 4 days and requires luck, study and a clear mind to pass. For the last 3 months, I have been going to night school 5 nights a week in an effort to prepare myself for this examination. Between that and the regular work here in the studio, you can imagine that I have been pretty busy. Unfortunately a number of your friends came to town during this time and I have not been able to be the host that would otherwise have been. I enjoyed meeting your 2 architect friends and their wives and was sorry that I could do no more than have lunch with them one day. About 2 weeks ago Tito S. called me up in the evening and said he would be down to see me. He never arrived and since he did not give me his address, I could not get in touch with him any more. [Note: Please give him HELL!!]
February 5,
Well, the exams are over now and the girl I wrote to you about at the beginning of the letter is already on her way. I won't know how I came out on the exams until 2 or 3 months and will not have a chance to take those I failed until June. That gives me a breathing space at least.
A few weeks ago another friend of yours came through - Hans Felsch. He was looking fine and I hope that I have a chance to get up to New Hampshire to do some skiing where he and Hilty have ski facilities, etc. Last Fall, I was up there to give Hilty some suggestions regarding painting his ski tow cabin. They have a nice set up there but it takes more than a week-end and easily a week's salary to enjoy it.
From Europe, I hear nothing from our "Collegen" - my fault as well as theirs since I never write. I guess they are having their hands full now and are certainly not suffering from unemployment. From Nora, who as you know is in London, I hear quite often. She wanted to visit America but there was some mix-up about her visa so that by the time she got it the war had already begun and it was difficult for her to come over. Her Mother and Mary were up in Finland but due to the present situation are now living in Sweden. Mary had rather bad luck in that the boy she was engaged to died of tuberculosis a couple of months ago. Manon and Heinz returned to Germany shortly before the outbreak of the war and are still there as far as I know.
That's about all the news there is. Remember me especially to your Mother and Father and also to such other people as I know.
Note:
Well you Dad, you Louse, you Architect, write me a line and let me know how you are and tell me about your work.
We got a Dachshund for Xmas and so now I have joined those people I used to laugh at so much when they waited for their animals to relieve themselves and those people I cursed about when I used to step in the sausages left by their hounds on the Vienna streets.
So long.
Tjark