Düsseldorf, 18.3.1936
Grafenberger Allee 67 II
(Atelier: Hindenburgwall 3)
Telefon 27759 / Telefon 36381
Dear Luis,
I received your letter with thanks. On the 28th of February I departed for Düsseldorf. Miss Italia accompanied me by taxi to the station and at the end the following mishap occurred. Miss Italia came with me into the express train and the train departed just as she had not yet got off. She rode willy-nilly with it as far as Erfurt and entertained the entire compartment in the train with certain conversations to the amusement of all fellow travellers.
In Düsseldorf, after a terribly tedious room search, I finally found a decent abode within 2 days. The atelier, which admittedly is not very large here in Düsseldorf but has great commissions, pleases me very much. Unfortunately there is no construction currently underway here, that is, nothing being built outside, the building work begins only when I am away again. As the greatest project we have underway is a 6-storey steel skeleton office building for the Vereinigte Deutsche Stahlwerke (United German Steel Works). The building is being constructed in phases over several years. In 1936 only a small part of it will be built. Completely new on a large scale in this building is the ceiling heating system, that is, not the floor that is heated, but the warmth radiates evenly downward from the ceiling. Furthermore we are drawing the plans for two exhibition houses for a housing exhibition in 1937 in Düsseldorf. Then a garage conversion etc. In Berlin the Haus Riefenstahl is being completed. Petersen is also a great sportsman and appeared in various winter sports films for the UFA.
Things are now quite lively here, since troops [illustrated with small drawings of soldiers and a tank] have come into the Rhineland. The "special" girls and the architects are naturally pleased about this, since new barracks etc. are needed — insofar as they have not already been built under a false name.
Regarding the matter of the schools, I was able to speak with a colleague from the atelier who previously worked for many years at Fahrenkamp's.
After 7 years of working together with Prof. F., he knows the conditions in the academy and private atelier quite well. He said that they have already had such cases where students were employed alongside the academy also in private ateliers. Since Fahrenkamp, judging by the type with the abilities of the person in question, probably often receives such enquiries, he said it would be most purposeful to speak directly with F. yourself (possibly presenting drawings). Fahrenkamp currently also has large commissions and would naturally have taken on personal work heavily, and written enquiries cannot always be handled very individually. A personal introduction is therefore more advantageous.
If you feel like making a visit to Düsseldorf that would truly be worthwhile, it would please me. The Rhineland is the German region where spring first makes itself felt, already now the crocuses are in bloom. Architecturally there is much modern work to be seen. In ladies' fashion I believe that a breath from Paris makes itself noticeable here, since the dresses and what is inside them flow already a certain quantum of "chic" and "charm." What may further interest you is the following. In the house where I live, a young architect has simultaneously taken an apartment, with whom I struck up an acquaintance. This gentleman studied at the Bauhaus Dessau and has his complete study works here. I was allowed to look through all the works and I was knocked out with astonishment! They have achieved very much more, not only in "painting pictures" as one might think, but above all in construction — reinforced concrete, statics, etc. I was delighted by the systematic approach that was embedded in the designs under Prof. Mies van der Rohe. In short, I have seen what was achieved and can now reject the mere attacks on Weimar etc., for I have seen the truth with my own eyes! Where are you now? If you should happen to come here we could then travel back to Weimar together? I could before my departure insert a few free days here for travelling around the Rhine region. Now wishing you much pleasure and warm greetings,
Your Rolf Altenburger