WINOLD TJARK REISS
115 West 15 Street
New York 11 New York
24 February 1949
Dear Lucho:
I owe you so many apologies that I do not know where to begin. The letter with the photographs arrived and I can't tell you how much Mary and I both enjoyed them. The enjoyment didn't stop there as I showed them to many friends who were very much impressed with your beautiful country as well as with your ability as a photographer. Your Christmas greetings also came and I promised myself that I would sit right down and answer. Now your card has come and I am actually sitting down.
There have been some legitimate reasons for delay although not enough to thoroughly excuse me by any means. For some reason this has been a particularly bad winter for us as we have all been rather sick at one time or another. Our boy was very sick with pneumonia and that of course had us going for some time. When it hasn't been sickness I have been working nights and weekends on my own work.
When I was relieved from active duty in the Army in 1946 I thought that I had better get some practical experience in architecture so I took a job with an architect. Since then I have been with several different architectural offices and have also gradually been doing some of my own work on the side. I haven't particularly enjoyed working in offices but the experience has been most worth while and I have worked on things I would otherwise not have had the opportunity to work on.
About the only thing that I have done on my own which I have really had a lot of fun with was a ski development (small) built by a philanthropist down near Pittsburgh. The outlook is good there and I hope to get quite a bit more work from the same people. At present they are doing a Children's Zoo for which I am the consultant. The kind of jobs we would have done at the Academy.
I am sure that you must have done some wonderful work in Chile during the past few years. Perhaps some day I'll make enough money so that Mary and I can come down and see it. I certainly envy you and your country with its magnificent scenery. AND SKIING.
We got away for a few days last winter and it was the first time I had been skiing in nine years. You can imagine what I looked like. This year the snow here in the east has been so poor that there have only been two or three weekends for people to go away. The west must have gotten all of the snow this year.
Unfortunately we have no travels to match yours. Right after the war we did take a trip out west to California via the southern route. We saw a lot of the US I had not seen before and were particularly impressed with New Mexico, Utah, Nevada, and Northern California.
The past few summers we have contented ourselves with staying here in the east. Mary usually goes up to an old farm we have in the country and I go up weekends. We live in a very small apartment here in New York and hope to build a house soon where we will be in a more enjoyable surrounding and have a little more room. As you probably know it is very difficult to find a satisfactory place to live these days.
In one of your letters you gave me Knandle's address and I have mislaid it. I would like to write to him sometime. If you can bring yourself to answer this letter sometime please include his address again.
I received a letter from Mrs de Lüttken several days ago. She also mentioned having seen your friends and was quite surprised at the coincidence. She is planning to go to Peru shortly to some small town near Cuzco. Remarkable energy she seems to have. If she stays there I imagine that she will be getting down to Chile to see you. All her family seem to be quite well although I believe Mary and her husband are not too happy in Sweden and hope to leave soon also. Nora has a job she likes as secretary to the Austrian Minister. You probably already know all this from letters you have received.
Mary and I both send our kindest regards. I hope that you make a trip to the US soon so that we may have the pleasure of meeting your wife. Next time you send some photos please include one which does not require a microscope to see Angela. We would love to see some more pictures whenever you have some to spare.
I hope you do not mind receiving this letter written on the typewriter. You must remember how awful my handwriting is - no one can read it so I thought I would spare you the annoyance of trying.
Note from Mary (at the end):
Don't believe Tjark's excuse for using the typewriter! We just bought it a few days ago, and he could hardly wait for a chance to use it. I do hope you manage to come. Please, soon - I am most anxious to meet you.
Note from Tjark (right side):
Best wishes to you both and my apologies again for having been so long to answer
Tjark