Den Haag, 4 May 1992.
Dear Luis,
After my last telephonecall with Rolf, I knew that he could not possible live much longer. Life was for him not worthwhile living anymore with all the ailments he had.
I hope that I shall have the opportunity to visit Switzerland again this year and that I then shall meet with Rolf's son Dieter.In previous letters I told you already of medical operations I had to undergo. At the 4th operation, the surgeon had to remove my Left eye. This was however not yet sufficient to stop my skin cancer and I had to undergo 40 radiations. I will only know after quite some time, if these radiations will have had the required effect. At the moment I'm slowly recovering from the after effects of the radiations. I much preferred to undergo 4 operations to the radiations.On the 11th of this month they will start on making an artificial replacement for my left eye and surroundings. After completion, it should be difficult to see, that I'm handicapped.
Just before my last operation I had my cardriver's licence renewed for 5 years. I now have to make a new application, but I'm confident that I shall be allowed to continue driving my car.Your travel descriptions are not at all boring to me. On the contrary they are very interesting and I followed them on my map. I'm very interested to see at least a bit of your country during a few weeks. To really see your country might take more than 6 months.
At the moment I can not decide if I can make use of your very kind invitation to come and stay with you. I expect to let you know by about August next, if I can come in either December or January. I'm particularly keen on meeting you again after such a long time. We will no doubt have lots to talk about.It must have been hard on you to have had twice pneumonia in the course of one year. I also had twice pneumonia when I was a child. At that time it was still a very risky disease.We have now lovely spring weather. The famous "Keukenhof" flower garden is open and attracting people from all over the world as also does the "Floriade", a huge horticulture and flower display held only once in 10 years.Sofar this year I have not been able to travel, but I expect that I shall start making short trips abroad in June. I don't feel the missing of my left eye as a great handicap, but all the same shall I make less use of my car and use the train instead.The enclosed picture shows you me, next to a picture of my father on the wall (born: 1965). The picture was taken last month and shows clearly no beardgrowth on the left side of my face, where I was radiated. I'm now anxiously waiting for some sign of growth.Kindest regards,
John