Cuzco Dec 18, 1937
Dear Lucho!
How are things in Santiago getting on? I suppose the apartment job will be coming along soon now and then you will be quite busy. So far I have had a marvellous time. That you have never been up in Bolivia or here to Cuzco via the Lago Titicaca means that you have missed a lot. You should by all means make the trip in the near future. The plane trip to Antofagasta was very beautiful and naturally interesting for me to see such barren country. By train to La Paz was one of the most beautiful trips I have ever made. You can't possibly imagine the coloring of the mountains near the border of Chile and Bolivia. And then the great white borax lake lying cradled between the volcanoes at sundown. Woke up the next day to look out upon the plateau of Bolivia (3800 meters) with little mud Indian huts, colorfully dressed Indians, and clouds that were just made for photographing. Groups of llama and sheep watched over by an Indian woman spinning her wool. Then towards evening the view down on La Paz 400 m. lower than the plateau and against a background of glacier covered mountains. Sunday the Indian market with hundreds of Indians sitting in rows selling everything from cocaine to used combs. During the week in La Paz I took a trip down to the tropics in a truck loaded with Indians and over one of the most dangerous looking roads I have ever seen. Eight hours for 150 kilometers with the road first climbing to 4700 m before descending to 1000. The destination was a little village called CHULIMANI - a place untouched by modern life as the road has only been finished a couple of years. The people didn't even seem to know what a camera was for they didn't move when I photographed them. Then over the Titicaca a few days later and on to Cuzco through country much similar to the plateau of Bolivia. A wonderful place is this Cuzco with the old Inca walls supplemented by the Spanish Colonial. Have visited many of the ruins in the vicinity, the location of one of which - MACHU PICCHU - looks so impregnable on top of a mountain in subtropical country that one doesn't see how the Spaniards ever got to it. The Indians here both men and women wear costumes which remind one very much of pictures of the inhabitants of Mongolia and Tibet. Very nice things to buy woven out of the home spun wool or little things made out of silver. Today I leave by air for Lima if the weather improves. I shall probably stay there a week looking around for a ship to get home on and making a trip back up into the country. Best wishes to everybody in Santiago and to your Mother and Father in particular. Many thanks to you all for the nice visit you made possible for me. Best of luck and a good Xmas
and happy New Year too
Tjark