My dear Lucho,
Your postcard from Hamburg is in my possession and while behind me Radio Paris PTT is broadcasting the Norwegian dances by Grieg, I hasten to answer you right away. First of all I heartily congratulate you on having successfully passed your final examination in Vienna and on winning the Behrens Prize. That is truly a very fine achievement and must have delighted you greatly. What was the task that had to be solved?
So tomorrow, as a freshly qualified architect, you will set off on the great journey to your homeland. Are your friends Reiss or Echenique coming along too, or are you travelling solo? I will keep this brief so that the letter still reaches you in time, and to give you information about the "Werk." I can highly recommend this journal to you, as it is very well edited and appears in a very neat overall presentation. It covers not only architecture but also applied arts. The articles are also mostly quite interesting and sharp in their criticism. The fact that it is, as far as I know, banned in Germany speaks in my opinion very strongly in favor of the WERK. According to my enquiries, the WERK would cost per year (12 issues) to Santiago including postage and packaging 35.- Swiss Francs. Very good value, especially given the devalued Swiss Franc. You can send the money through the "SCHWEIZERISCHE VOLKSBANK" SOLOTHURN or perhaps by another means, post, legation? You must not forget to give your exact home address, preferably in "Spanish version." You will also want to have the complete 1937 volume with the forwarding of the last 7 issues? It is a shame that nothing could come of your Switzerland and Scandinavia tour, but I understand the travel difficulties that caused these plans to fall through. You can always make up for it in later decades. Now I wish you for your great sea voyage to "wintry Chile" all that is pleasant and good. Hopefully you will find all your family in the best of health upon your return. The joy of the great reunion will be enormous, for your homesickness will have grown considerably since our Weimar days. Are you travelling directly on the DRESDEN through the Panama Canal to Valparaiso, without a stop?
Dear Lucho, do also not forget to report occasionally on your doings and activities in your home surroundings, once you have properly readjusted to the home environment.
Now I close, wishing you once more a good journey and a fortunate sea voyage, and send you as a farewell the warmest greetings from Switzerland.
Your Rolf
Solothurn (Suisse)
11 July 1937
Gärtnerstrasse 6