Herrsching b/München, 15.12.36.
Dear Luis, I was tremendously pleased about your letter. I already imagined you among the fighting troops in Spain. Your mother is after all of Spanish nationality? Your summer journey was certainly more beautiful. You have again seen a great deal.
Luis, now you will be astonished my boy! You think I am in Stralsund or Weimar. But I have been since the 1st of September in the atelier of the most occupied Munich architect, Prof. Roderich Fick, working as an assistant. Morkus had written to me in Stralsund and asked me to join Fick and interrupt my studies. Fick is today one of the best architects in Germany and private architect of the Führer. We have only personal commissions of the Führer to work on. Very fabulous, interesting work. You have often told me before about beautiful Austria. It was always my wish also once to get to the mountains. Now I have the luck to be allowed to work in the beautiful city of Munich. To Garmisch-Partenkirchen I travel quite often at the weekend. I have also already been to Innsbruck and Salzburg. Salzburg is a very, very beautiful city. Enchanting. Where are you spending the end of the year again, like last year?
That Prof. Peter Behrens has been appointed to Berlin I have read; Popp will be a good replacement for him. Your competition work is very fine, I would like to see the solution once. In June you will already have your diploma and will then be active as a great architect in your homeland.
What probably interests Fick the most is what is happening now in Weimar. The same story as before. Morkus has requested his dismissal and maintains here in Munich a larger office. Prof. Fick has handed over to him some very fine commissions. Raiser will also soon be leaving Weimar, as a better position has been offered to him in Stuttgart. Beblo maintains a craftsmen and carpentry school in Berlin. So everything is falling apart. The leadership of the university still lies in the hands of Prof. Schultze-Naumburg. As replacement for Morkauer, Prof. Mühlfeld has been appointed as design teacher. A replacement for Raiser is not yet there, and Beblo is being represented by Dipl. Arch. Hänsler. A new young architect, a Schmittheimer student, has also been appointed to the school. You see, a dreadful continued governance by Messrs. Schultze and Koch. Whether I will ever return to Weimar I do not know.
Now to close, dear Luis, a happy end of year and let something be heard from you soon and warm greetings,
Your Herbert Fronisius
My address:
H. Fronisius, Atelier Prof. Fick
Herrsching b/München
Am Ammersee