STANDON HOMESTEAD
WARNURSERY
OCKLEY
SURREY
June 10th, 43
Querido Lucho
Oh such a difficult letter! I will try and make everything clear. - Cucho came to see me at Xmas and told me, amongst many other things, that you had thought of marrying me. But I didn't believe him then, because you had never said so to me. I thought of you a lot and waited for a letter, to see if Cuchos was right. A few months passed and I heard of your engagement through Cuchos. My first thought was, of course, that Cuchos had been wrong, and I was also very disappointed. Then I got your last letter (5th April) which worried me for days so that I wrote to Cuchos and asked him point blank (a boca de fusil) whether what he had said was quite true. He swore that it was, and that you were not happy now. So I decided to write this (oh so difficult!) letter and sent off a telegram yesterday. - Then I had time to think about you and me being married (before your engagement) I thought of all the pro's and con's of such a union. If neither of us have changed much, I believe we could make a very happy couple. 6 years is a loooong time Querido Lucho and maybe we would hardly recognize each other. I am sure I must have changed. I love your language and would learn it quickly and I believe I could love your country. But have you ever thought whether anybody with my nationality would be very welcome in your country? - I sometimes think, that no letter of yours has got lost, but that my pobre Lucho had not the courage to ask me to become his wife. Am I right? - I got one long letter, with photos from you in 1938, one in 39 I believe and one after I told you of Tjark's marriage - in which you describe a glorious holiday and "en passant" you say: that in the old days you had been quite in love with me yourself, although ~~~[texto tachado]~~~. And that was ALL.
Then your last letter of April 5th. - DON'T think that I have forgotten, that in this letter you said, that there seemed to be "no way out" of some mistake that you had recently made. I suppose getting officially engaged ties you down rather definitely and to break off an engagement would do harm to your name as an architect and from the social point of view it would be very bad. Maybe there are other reasons, whatever it is, Querido Lucho, I shall understand and if you cannot alter your fate we can remain friends. - Sometimes I think that you must have idealized me to think of me still after so many years. I wish you could realize, that I am a very ordinary young woman (and not so young at that). If you think of it as very hard perhaps your future will seem happier to you. Please write to me SOON and PLEASE don't be shy and tell me anything you want to. So whatever you decide to do or not to do I shall always be your vieja amiga
Nora 
Who wishes very much that Santiago could be reached by bus or train, or tram or bicycle or even - per pedes.
carajo! mierda!