Rolf Altenburger
Rötiquai 38
CH-4500 Solothurn
Solothurn, 30 June 1991
[Copy]
My dear Luccho,
I thank you for your long letter of 12 April 1991 with its very interesting remarks. You have even kindly invited me to come to Chile in the period from September to December. That would be wonderful, but unfortunately I must tell you that I am very ill, that is, my eyes have become so weak that I can only read and write with difficulty, and a journey is out of the question. I can no longer recognize people face to face, and an eye operation is no longer possible, as professors in Bern and Zurich have explained to me. You know, if I were fit and in full health, I would come to you in Chile with the greatest of pleasure, and I regret extraordinarily that I can no longer undertake a journey to you.
And now listen carefully! An industrial company, the Cellulosefabrik Attisholz SA Solothurn, wants to build a cellulose factory in Chile. One of the directors of this concern has told me that he has already been to Chile several times and has found and purchased the building site. This director is very impressed by Chile, and finds the country very beautiful, similar to Switzerland. It is a shame that I cannot accept my friend's invitation, it would have suited me, as it did him, very well. The country is stable, and foreign investors find Chile to be the best country in Latin America in this regard. I asked where in Chile this industrial facility was to be built. He named LICATEN for me. This place lies south of Santiago. The new facility would at full capacity be able to employ 500 to 1000 workers. I told the director that my friend L.M. had worked as a project expert for the World Bank, all over the world. Since the Cellulose SA was apparently also in contact with the World Bank, I had to tell him that you are, of course, like me, retired. So, as fate would have it, instead of Rolf Altenburger, the Cellulosefabrik Attisholz SA from Solothurn is coming to Chile. In the meantime I have heard that other industrialists from Switzerland also want to invest in Chile, such as Marc Rich and Schmidheiny.
Yes, my dear Luccho, the journey to Chile would have been for me at my age (78) still the last great journey, but unfortunately I must, as described, forgo it for health reasons. It would have been too wonderful.
It is pleasing that your dear wife is doing well again after treatment by specialists in Boston. One must be glad that no serious illness was found. I can imagine that the difficulties with the eyes, that is, with the vision for your wife, are not easy to bear. I know this quite well from my own experience. Though even with magnifying glasses I do not see any better.
Let me tell you something about our family: My wife Pia came from the family of a Federal Councillor (Minister). We married in 1953 and had two children, a son and a daughter. The son became a jurist (abogado) and works at the State Department for Education. His name is Dieter and he is not yet married. My daughter Sabin became a teacher (maestra) and also studied at a school of arts and crafts for graphic design and photography. She is married to a banker who works in Zurich at a major bank, Credit Suisse. I already have 2 grandsons named Tim (3 years old) and Bastian (1 year old). This then is my family, but sadly my dear wife Pia passed away in April 1989 at the age of only 66 from Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma. It is very hard for me to live alone, after we had a very happy marriage and experienced so much that was beautiful together.
So that you can see what Solothurn looks like, I am enclosing some color photographs.
Warm greetings,
Rolf