Athens Greece July 23/37
Dear Lucho!
I am just writing this letter as a measure of safety, hoping that you will already have received an air mail letter which I will be writing from Argentina next week. In other words the news in this letter will be old news, I hope.
Your letter from Antofagasta was enjoyable, and to know that you received my letter from, encouraging. From what I have just found out today after Argentines Consulate here in Athens I would give up my trip to S.A. if it was not for your letter. They really make things quite impossible. Accompanied by my U.S. Consul who knows the Argentine Consul General I visited him only to hear that since I have not been in residence in Greece for a year the visa fee would be 20.- (Twenty) gold pesos, or in Greek money in which it must be paid 3,900.- Drachma. (36.- U.S. dollars). You can well understand that I can certainly not afford so much money just to have the privilege to travel through the Argentines. Normally (with a years residence) it amounts to about 7.- U.S. dollars which I would have paid. Thereupon the Consul had two suggestions to make. #1 If the boat stopped in Montevideo, Uruguay to get out and apply for a visa there. But I do not know if the boat stops there and the agents of the Yugoslav Lloyd here will surely also not know. And then that it would mean buying an additional visa to Uruguay here, which is also not cheap, and sailing 1st class from Montevideo to Buenos Aires. #2 Suggestion was to sail without my visa in the hope that you could arrange for a visa being granted to me upon arrival. (2) this being done by your getting in touch with your Agent in the Argentine telling them that I am invited to visit you in Chile and merely need a transit visa to get across the mountains & get to another boat to sail around through the St. of Magellan. As a member of the ships crew he'll be permitted to get off the boat but unless a visa is granted I will have to get back on the same boat when it sails. In other words I can get mad and attempt getting a visa by myself but help through possible influence would be no doubt necessary. I don't even know if they will take me from Patras under these conditions. If they do I will certainly have to guarantee that if I don't get a visa in Argentina I will return on the same boat to Patras to save the Company from being heavily fined. I hope you see my difficulty and the chance I will be taking of having to make a 31 day trip back to Europe which I certainly would not like. My added handicap will not being able to speak Spanish with these bastardly officials. If you have some particularly good friend going to Buenos Aires or in B.A. at about the time my ship arrives you might give em my address so that if need be I would have somebody who could help me out. I will be sailing on the Marija Račić (MARIJA RAČIĆ) between the 2nd and 7th of August and the crossing takes about 35 days. Well, it's been a long story to tell, but I can tell you that you are not nearly as bored with the whole thing as I am. As I have already told you if it wasn't for your letter and I very really earnest desire to see Chile and you to tell you what a bunch of bastards I think the whole Argentine immigration department is
I would have given up the whole thing and gone home to get around to more pleasant topics and to answer the remarks in your letter. I haven't written you much so couldn't get by your tender thoughts. As far as the girl who works in the hospital is concerned I must say I have also seen nothing of her. Your cousin Fanny has been very nice to me, helping in every way she could. I believe that she was a little disappointed that Heinz and I showed not a great interest in a new yacht club that has been started in Japan; but we really had little time to do so. The other cousin was the first to greet us upon our arrival and has said little since. The cousin who was in Vienna I have only seen like a ghost wandering about the halls still shuffling and not a word says. He hasn't recognized me so far but as soon as I get back I will immediately introduce myself again and see that he comes on at the same boat with us and drop him off to the Argentine authorities to worry about.
On the way down to Ragusa we stopped at RAB, SPLIT, and HVAR which were interesting though impressed me the most and I was really sorry to leave after only one day. After 4 days in Ragusa I continued along alone to Greece because Heinz had to return to Vienna. The trip was miserable and I slept on deck to keep cool and save money. So far Athens has been as hot as was to be expected but at least a dry heat and not humid. The Acropolis rather disappointed me and so tomorrow I go for a day to Delphi. On Thursday I set sail for Ragusa again in order to make my ship on time.
Incidentally I heard of another way of getting across the Andes. A new southern route which one first takes the train through Argentina and then a steamer across the Andes and then via OSORNO by train up to Santiago. KATZ in his book about S.A. is supposed to have gone some such way. At any rate please let me know what you think the cheapest and best way is get to Santiago from B.A. as I will have damned little money left what with all the visa hassle, that I have already had to pay for. My next move in Chile at the 15th of Sept. When you receive a letter that has many post marks from the States, or anywhere else, please be so gracious to send me some of the money if I should write for it. Some additional expense may leave me high and dry upon arrival.
Well, you bastard, I hope that you had a bad time on your little boat with all the elegant society aboard and that the family with two daughters at least were sweet and not sour. You will, no doubt, have enjoyed telling my home to see all my old friends and family, of course. Be a good fellow and get down to work so that I meet a prosperous young architect who will hardly have time to say "hello" to me and will insist telling him he has to waste time worrying about (I hope you do long a little) a visa for Argentina.
My best wishes to your parents with the hope that they like their son who has returned with all the honors of the duplicate cups as well as Belgrade cups, etc. etc. After the story I saw that newspaper man - your face should have been plastered on the front pages of all the newspapers. "National holiday declared in honor of returning victor son!!!"
So long my friend -Tjark