Wuppertal, before Easter 37
Gewerbeschulstrasse 117
My dear Luis,
Some considerable time has passed before I come back to your letter, but since there was nothing significant to tell I simply waited. I thank you for the interesting account of the "Balkan excursion" of Dr. [small drawing of a lamp/light] and the other amusing and tragic experiences during the winter holidays. I have not yet bought my camera. Based on your Exakta description I had it demonstrated to me in various first-class photography shops, so that after the Leica and Rolleiflex system it seemed to me to be an ideal camera too; however all the photo dealers urgently advised me against buying such a camera, since up to today the Ihagee-Werk had not been able to establish itself with any apparatus, and countless complaints had made the earlier Exaktas very unpopular. The entire apparatus with lenses was said to be very imperfect and technically far behind the Leica and Contax. I mentioned your combination with Zeiss lens, whereupon they explained that even the Zeiss lens, as a first-class product, could never compensate for the technical imperfections of the rest of the apparatus. I now believe I will have to decide on a Leica f 1:2 50mm after all.
Enclosed you will find 2 model photographs of the Kantonsschule in Solothurn. Last Sunday the construction was finally approved by popular vote and will now provisionally be built to 2/3 of it on the basis of the approved credit. The upper photograph shows the rear side of the school. The 3 laterally fully glazed sections contain the stairwells, while the other 2 contain the toilet facilities. Far to the left [small drawing of a building] on the outside lies the assembly hall (singing and concerts) with the logical [small drawing of a trapezoid floor plan] floor plan and the rising floor. The assembly hall is placed freely on supports and the space underneath is enclosed with wire glass and contains the bicycles and motorcycles of the students. The low wing parallel to the avenue contains cloakrooms and showers for the adjoining gymnasium.
The lower photograph shows the front facade facing south-east, the most favorable orientation from a school-technical standpoint for theory classrooms. The windows are still somewhat very large and will be changed. In order to break up the monotonous front the building was divided into 4 sections by incisions, whereby the corridor on the rear side is connected to the south front each time by balconies.
The model 1:200 is made of cardboard and has been executed with the greatest precision down to the smallest details. Since I only have these photographs here, I ask you to return them to me occasionally. In a few years I will then be able to send you pictures of the school in natura.
Have you by the way heard that Gropius was appointed to the great university Harvard in Massachusetts, U.S.A.? He will have much to tell there about New Germany! At Easter I will travel to Holland and see whether the tulips are already blooming in Haarlem; one cannot however make any great leaps without first going through the tedious foreign currency formalities. Curiously, in February I unexpectedly received a letter from Amsterdam, it was from van Jautens' fiancée! I had namely wanted to convince myself in November by postcard whether this fellow had actually undertaken such an Africa tour, to bring yet more light into this mysterious affair etc. The fiancée wrote therefore that Henry has actually been working for 9 months in Johannesburg in South Africa at an architect's and gave me his exact address. He wants to come home this year in order to get married!
Have you made many new acquisitions for your gramophone, though in Vienna the opportunity for good concerts should not be lacking and therefore the gramophone can rest somewhat. In Weimar we once listened to the record "Rugby" by Arthur Honegger, but His Masters Voice has brought out several more records of this modern composer such as "Skating Rink," "Roi David," etc. I have recently heard these records in Switzerland. Here in Wuppertal too one has the opportunity to attend good concerts; I recently heard an excellent performance by Gaspar Cassadó. Also a Chopin cycle by Raoul Kochalski could satisfy me very much.
In the meantime I interrupted the writing and was in Elberfeld at a great variety evening with "Grock" and a first-class Berlin artists ensemble. Grock as a musical clown was magnificent, we Swiss can be proud of our compatriot.
As an enclosure I have copied 3 sketches for you from the Schweizerische Bauzeitung not with all its small details, but rather just to show you how leading Swiss architects work. It concerns the first prize-winning project for a congress building for the city of Zurich on the Alpenquai on the lake. It was a competition among Zurich architects. The task was enormously large and the old Tonhalle halls had to be cleverly connected with the congress hall for 2000 persons, restaurants with restaurant terraces, banquet hall, garden, foyer and vestibules, chamber music hall etc. etc.
What I actually want to show you is more the manner and approach of the overall concept, above all how completely differently one tackles a task of these dimensions here compared to for example in [Germany]. One finds no trace of forced symmetry, one tries with loosely arranged, staggered building volumes to avoid the impression of the oppressive and colossal. One willingly foregoes the outward effect of gigantic surfaces and openings and consciously chooses the more intensive effect of a small-scale human dimension. The sketch — a perspective cross-section through foyer and congress vestibule — shows a generous spatial arrangement using all contemporary building materials and is despite its great dimensions airy, fresh, free and has no brutal monumentality.
In 1939 the Swiss National Exhibition will be in Zurich. The overall plan is already available and it appears that on the ideal grounds by the lake an exhibition technically and architecturally outstanding is emerging. The Swiss Pavilion in Paris on the Seine also came about through a competition and should turn out quite well, as it is being executed by a very good architectural firm in Basel. Naturally there will be no gigantic plaster fake-facades and Greek capitals to be found there, but rather functional, elegant, light steel-glass-wood constructions!
At the moment I am trying to get away from Barmen into a first-class architectural atelier until autumn or to a school, academy etc. I want to see where I have chances. I am curious where the wind will blow me. I also still had to report about Brown and observations in his firm, but my inner voice says no!!!! For today I want to stop and receive
warm Easter greetings, from your Rolf
PS: The address has changed! It is the address of the firm because I may unexpectedly travel and so the post from the office will be conscientiously forwarded to me!