Solothurn, 7 September 1936
Gaertnerstrasse 6
My dear Lucho,
I thank you for your interesting report from Viana do Castelo. The letter had already been lying at home for some time and could not be forwarded to me, as after the official end of the student labor colonies I was still wandering around privately with colleagues in the Swiss south. Is it not very amusing that threads from Portugal through your friend should now spin their way precisely to Solothurn, that small town. There are very many Lüthy here, but this family name is very strongly represented in Switzerland. The lady in question, D.L., lives as far as I know outside the town of Solothurn in the small village of Feldbrunnen. I believe the villa is called Villa Serdan and I remember it, as in the garden at the entrance two large flamingos or storks made of formed white-painted sheet metal stand, which made a great impression on me as a child. The deceased husband of this lady was, I believe, previously active in Sumatra.
As you know, I was programmatically three weeks in the student labor colony. I am satisfied with it and my expectations were not disappointed. Spengemann came too, but unfortunately had to travel home to Bielefeld (Obernstr. 15) after just 14 days. He had to report immediately to the military and must now serve a full two years with the air force in Königsberg. Naturally his studies are interrupted for this time. As you know, the obligatory military service in Hitleria has recently been suddenly extended to 2 years.
Now to the labor service. We built a road approximately 1.75 m wide for mules along the southern slope of a mountain valley at 1400 m altitude. The work was not particularly hard and the atmosphere at work was ideally good. We were about 40 men, of whom 14 were foreigners — English, Czechs, Poles, Germans, French. Added to these were 4 female students who worked in the kitchen, then a young colonial doctor, a colony leader, a head cook and an engineer from the state for the technical supervision. The food was excellent and considering the primitive kitchen facilities outstanding, actually even better than in Weimar. Through the physical work and the mountain air, the appetite was enormously stimulated like an aperitif, and the quantities of food one stuffed down one's throat were gigantic. Student-friendly grocery stores gave us much smoking material, canned goods, pineapple etc., which was then usually eaten after the campfires that took place twice a week. At the campfires, productions of all kinds were performed; the foreigners with their peculiar songs etc. found a particularly grateful audience. The weather was fabulous. We usually worked only in swimming trunks and were consequently tanned brown by the sun. In our free time we bathed in the waterfall of the quite cold glacier stream. The few inhabitants of these valleys speak almost exclusively Italian and French. This comes from the fact that most people move to Paris in winter, where they occupy themselves with selling roasted chestnuts, ice cream, and southern fruits.
After the camp I had actually planned a smaller Tour de Suisse by car or bicycle. Due to Spengemann's earlier departure I had to change my plans and so I moved for a few days to Lago Maggiore, to Locarno, Ascona, Ronco etc. We bathed, rowed and lazed about and enjoyed the magnificent weather. The southern Switzerland, mainly Ascona, is heavily visited by Germans; many sinister types of Jewish emigrants populate the otherwise so idyllic Ticino villages. I did not miss visiting the Hotel Monte Verità in Ascona, about which I have already told you. It has now been very attractively enlarged and provided with a locally appropriate Locanda ticinese. The hotel is extremely tastefully furnished and from the von der Heydt collection one finds various works by Picasso, Matisse, Hodler, Feuerbach, which have been used to furnish the various reception rooms. Oriental art is also well represented, so one finds numerous Indian deity sculptures and Chinese tapestries. The entire hotel operation makes a very cultivated impression overall, though I hardly believe that all guests know what they are seeing and appreciating. Overall, through this Fahrenkamp hotel building a new hotel type was created. The stiff life of the grand hotels is frowned upon, only their comfort has been retained. Dress code does not exist.
That Portugal possesses so many fabulous architectural works of art I had hardly believed, since one hears so very little about this country. Travelling in Portugal is according to your description very romantic; fleas and bedbugs were also not entirely absent in our camp either. We christened our hut with the fine name IL CIMICIAIO. That one can still notice Gothic influences in such a westerly exposed country surprises me. Are you managing well with the Spanish language, even in the remote fishing villages? Are you and the only ones travelling there, have the others remained in France? What does one notice of the Spanish Civil War near you? At first one believed here it was a trifling little revolution as one is accustomed to from Spain, but the matter has developed into a gruesome internal war in which the plebs bestially vents itself.
In the dark background grin Adolf and Benito against Stalin.
Your Rolf